Mithril update 2024-03-27 (#366)
IntersectMBO/cardano-updates: blog/2024-03-27-mithril.md

---
title: Mithril Team Update
slug: 2024-03-27-mithril
authors: jpraynaud
tags: [mithril]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## High level overview

> This week the Mithril team announced the release of a new [`Mithril distribution 2412.0`](https://github.com/input-output-hk/mithril/releases/tag/2412.0). This release includes several critical updates and enhancements, such as support for Prometheus metrics endpoint in signer, deprecation of the `snapshot` command in the client CLI, full Pallas based implementation of the chain observer, and support for Cardano node `8.9.0`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This week, the Mithril team released a new [`Mithril distribution 2412.0`](https://github.com/input-output-hk/mithril/releases/tag/2412.0). This release includes several critical updates and enhancements, such as support for the Prometheus metrics endpoint in signer, deprecation of the `snapshot` command in the client CLI, full Pallas-based implementation of the chain observer, and support for Cardano node v.8.9.0. 
```

> The team continued implementing the certification of Cardano transactions in Mithril networks. They kept focusing on scaling the signature and proof generation for `mainnet`, kept implementating a more versatile beaconing mechanism, reducing the latency of transactions signature, and kept investigating a bug in the block parser that prevents some Conway transactions from being signed. Additionally, they started working on a prototype to decentralize signer registration with the relay and a peer-to-peer (P2P) network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The team continued implementing the certification of Cardano transactions in Mithril networks. They focused on scaling the signature and proof generation for `mainnet`, kept implementing a more versatile beaconing mechanism, reducing the latency of transactions signature, and continued investigating a bug in the block parser that prevents some Conway transactions from being signed. Additionally, they started working on a prototype to decentralize signer registration with the relay and a peer-to-peer (P2P) network.
```
